Lore :
European Khanate :
When the Mongols arrived in East Europe there were no strong states such as the real world Poland and Hungary to stop them. Therefore they conquered the lands of East Europe and submited the slavic tribes there quite easily. The division of the Mongol Empire left the western branch called the White Horde independent from the others Khanate and free to plot their own expansion.

Unfortunately for them, the Saxons/Eastern Franks and the Slavs of Germany and Bohemia-Moravia saw that if not stopped here and now, the Mongols will destroy their kingdoms just as they destroyed East Europe. And when the Mongols started to march through the Sorbian land, a huge army of united Franks/Slavs and Saxons gathered to stop them.

The battle of Budysyn :

A battle occured in a plain near Budysyn to the Sorbian capital. The plain was quite narrow, surrounded by dense forest at one side and by the river Spree on the other. This terrain was good against the Mongols because their cavalry maneuver will be limited. And indeed they were. The Mongols too confident about their own strength engaged the battle against the coalition's left composed of heavily armored franks knights. They didn't scout the forest and this was their mistake since volley of Slavs arrow and charges of Saxons infantry came out of it. The right flank of the Mongol army was shattered by of the encirclement and the Khan of the White Horde was killed by an arrow. The other parts of the army realizing that the battle was loss soon routed. A lot of Mongols died in this disorganized retreat which for one time was not a fake time.

Consequences:

West Germany:
But the loss were also heavy for the coaltion : The East Francian King died with no successor and the Kingdom was soon divided in 3 duchy : Alamannia, Bavaria and Franconia.
The Saxons also took this opportunity to conquer East Francia northern Lands and secure a dominant position in Germany.

East Germany :
The victory was a great relief for the slavic states of East Germany, they were deeply harmed by the numerous Mongols raids and took time to reconstruct their countries.

Mongols:
This defeat along with the death of the Khan affected the White Horde which was divided in two subsenquently of a Civil War: the Horde of Subutai in Hungary and the horde of Orda in Poland.
